Getting and Cleaning Data - Project
==============================================================
By Nikhil Reddy
==============================================================

This repository hosts the R code, the Tidy Dataset generated by the R code and documentation files for the Data Science's track course "Getting and Cleaning data", available in coursera.

The data has been taken from experiments carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. 
Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz data were captured. 
The experiments were video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset was randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.

## Files

`CodeBook.md` describes the Data, the dimensions of the data and variables(of final dataset)

`run_analysis.R` contains all the code to perform the analyses described in the 5 steps. (The code was created and tested in Windiws10 environment)

The output of the script run_analysis.R is `my_tidy_dataset.txt`.

The original dataset included the following data files:
=======================================================
- 'features.txt': List of all features.

- 'activity_labels.txt': List of class labels and their activity name.

- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.

- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.

- 'train/subject_train.txt': ID's of subjects in the training data

- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.

- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

- 'test/subject_test.txt': ID's of subjects in the training data


A brief description of the script:
==================================
The run_analysis.R script merges data from the original dataset as listed above and produces a narrow and tidy data set which may be used for further analysis.

The R script, run_analysis.R, does the following:

1. Downloads the dataset if it does not already exist in the working directory
2. Sets working directory
3. Loads the activity and feature data
4. Loads both the training and test datasets, keeping only those columns which reflect a mean or standard deviation (features that have mean() or std() in the name)
5. Loads the activity and subject data for each dataset, and merges those columns with the dataset
6. Merges the two datasets
7. Creates a tidy dataset that consists of the average (mean) value of each variable for each subject and activity pair.

Output data file: my_tidy_dataset.txt

